# Cisco IOS Interface Level Operation

CLI Parser + Key Variable + Golden Baseline + Follow up

## Show Interface $INTF
To display statistics for input interface configured on the network device, the resulting output varies, depending on the network for which an interface has been configured. The output of Router and Switch are almost same, and the only difference is Router has IP address like `Internet address is 10.10.10.10/30`; Switch has media information like `Full-duplex, Auto-speed, media type is RJ45`.

### CLI Parser:
```
Switch#show interfaces Ethernet0/0
Ethernet0/0 is up, line protocol is up (connected) 
  Hardware is Ethernet, address is aabb.cc00.1000 (bia aabb.cc00.1000)
  MTU 1500 bytes, BW 10000 Kbit/sec, DLY 1000 usec, 
     reliability 255/255, txload 1/255, rxload 1/255
  Encapsulation ARPA, loopback not set
  Keepalive set (10 sec)
  Full-duplex, Auto-speed, media type is RJ45
  input flow-control is off, output flow-control is unsupported 
  ARP type: ARPA, ARP Timeout 04:00:00
  Last input 00:00:00, output 00:00:00, output hang never
  Last clearing of "show interface" counters never
  Input queue: 0/2000/0/0 (size/max/drops/flushes); Total output drops: 0
  Queueing strategy: fifo
  Output queue: 0/0 (size/max)
  5 minute input rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
  5 minute output rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
     458456 packets input, 43710068 bytes, 0 no buffer
     Received 19012 broadcasts (0 multicasts)
     0 runts, 0 giants, 0 throttles 
     0 input errors, 0 CRC, 0 frame, 0 overrun, 0 ignored
     0 input packets with dribble condition detected
     1091754 packets output, 86074743 bytes, 0 underruns
     0 output errors, 0 collisions, 0 interface resets
     0 unknown protocol drops
     0 babbles, 0 late collision, 0 deferred
     0 lost carrier, 0 no carrier
     0 output buffer failures, 0 output buffers swapped out
```

### Key Variable:  
* Ethernet0/0 is `up`, line protocol is `up` (connected)
  1. [str] First `up` indicates whether the interface hardware is currently active. { up | administratively down }
  2. [str] Second `up` indicates whether the software processes that handle the line protocol believe the interface is usable. { up | down | administratively down } 

* MTU `1500` bytes, BW `10000` Kbit/sec
  1. [int] Maximum transmission unit of the interface.
  2. [int] Bandwidth of the interface in kilobits per second.

* txload `1`/255, rxload `1`/255
  1. [int] Outcome load on the interface. tx_utilization = (1/255)*100%
  2. [int] Income load on the interface. rx_utilization = (1/255)*100%

* `Full-duplex`, `Auto-speed`
  1. [str] Duplex information.
  2. [str] Speed information.

* Input queue: `0`/`2000`/`0`/0 (size/max/drops/flushes); Total output drops: `0`
  1. [int] Current size of the input queue. 
  2. [int] Maximum size of the queue. 
  3. [int] Number of messages discarded in this interval. 
  4. [int] Total number of messages discarded in this session. 

* Queueing strategy: `fifo`
  1. [str] Qos queue strategy operated in the interface. { FIFO | WFQ | CBWFQ | LLQ }

* 5 minute input rate `0` bits/sec, `0` packets/sec
  1. [int] Average number of input bits transmitted per second in the last 5 minutes.
  2. [int] Average number of input packets transmitted per second in the last 5 minutes.

* 5 minute output rate `0` bits/sec, `0` packets/sec
  1. [int] Average number of output bits and packets transmitted per second in the last 5 minutes.
  1. [int] Average number of output packets transmitted per second in the last 5 minutes.

* `0` input errors, `0` CRC, 0 frame, 0 overrun, 0 ignored
  1. [int] Input errors includes runts, giants, no buffer, CRC, frame, overrun, and ignored counts, can roughly count as the sum of enumerated input error counts.
  2. [int] Cyclic redundancy checksum generated by the originating LAN station or far-end device does not match the checksum calculated from the data received.

* `0` output errors, `0` collisions, 0 interface resets
  1. [int] Sum of all errors that prevented the final transmission of datagrams out of the interface being examined.
  2. [int] Number of messages retransmitted because of an Ethernet collision.


### Golden Baseline:
* In-Used interfaces status should be both `up`, and None-Used interfaces should be both `administratively down` for security purpose.

* Standard MTU is **1,500** bytes, and Jumbo frames are used on local area networks that support at least 1 Gbps and can be as large as **9,000** bytes.

* Most of time the interface duplex should set `Full-duplex` have the best transmition.

* In ideal situation, the **delta** of `input errors`, `output errors` and other error/drop variables should be 0.


### Follow Up:  
* Check the cable physical connection.
* Compare the interface configuration with golden baseline.
* Check neighbor interface status.
* Compare the neighbor interface configuration with golden baseline.

